README.md, before:

# Video Course Transcript Organizer

> **Automatically extract, clean, and organize subtitles from video courses into searchable text files**

[![PowerShell](https://img.shields.io/badge/PowerShell-5391FE?style=for-the-badge&logo=powershell&logoColor=white)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/)
[![Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows-0078D6?style=for-the-badge&logo=windows&logoColor=white)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Features](#features)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Output Structure](#output-structure)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## 🎯 Overview

Ever downloaded a video course (Udemy, Coursera, etc.) and wanted to quickly search through all the transcripts? This PowerShell script automatically processes hundreds of subtitle files (`.vtt` and `.srt`) and converts them into clean, organized, and searchable text files.

**Perfect for:**
- 📚 Course study notes and reference
- 🔍 Quick topic searching across entire courses
- 📝 Creating study guides from video content
- 🎓 Academic research and note-taking
- 💼 Professional development tracking

## ✨ Features

### 🧹 **Smart Cleaning**
- Removes timestamps (`00:01:23.456 --> 00:01:26.789`)
- Strips metadata (`WEBVTT`, `NOTE`, `STYLE`)
- Eliminates sequence numbers and empty lines
- Filters out sound effects (`[music]`, `[applause]`)

### 📁 **Organized Output**
- Maintains course folder structure
- Creates individual clean transcript files
- Generates combined master file for searching
- Handles special characters and emojis in filenames

### 🎯 **User-Friendly**
- Progress tracking with colored output
- Comprehensive error handling
- Automatic results folder opening
- Detailed processing statistics

## 🔧 Requirements

- **Windows 10/11** or Windows Server
- **PowerShell 5.1** or higher
- **Course folder** with `.vtt` or `.srt` subtitle files

## 📦 Installation

### Method 1: Download Script

1. **Download** the script file:
   ```powershell
   # Save the script as 'Process-Subtitles.ps1' in your course folder

Enable script execution (if needed):
powershellSet-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned


Method 2: Clone Repository
bashgit clone https://github.com/devsgh-cloudsec/video-course-transcript-organizer.git
cd video-course-transcript-organizer
🚀 Usage
Step 1: Prepare Your Course Folder
Organize your course like this:
📂 Your-Course-Folder/
├── 📂 01 - Introduction/
│   ├── 📄 01 - Welcome.vtt
│   └── 📄 02 - Overview.vtt
├── 📂 02 - Getting Started/
│   ├── 📄 01 - Setup.srt
│   └── 📄 02 - Configuration.srt
└── 📄 Process-Subtitles.ps1  ← Place script here
Step 2: Run the Script
Option A: Right-click Method

Right-click Process-Subtitles.ps1
Select "Run with PowerShell"

Option B: PowerShell Command
powershell# Navigate to your course folder
cd "E:\Courses\Your-Course-Folder"

# Run the script
.\Process-Subtitles.ps1
Step 3: View Results
The script will automatically open the Subtitles folder containing your processed files.
📊 Output Structure
After processing, you'll get:
📂 Your-Course-Folder/
├── 📂 01 - Introduction/
│   ├── 📄 01 - Welcome.vtt
│   └── 📄 02 - Overview.vtt
├── 📂 02 - Getting Started/
│   ├── 📄 01 - Setup.srt
│   └── 📄 02 - Configuration.srt
└── 📂 Subtitles/                    ← Generated by script
    ├── 📄 01 - Welcome.txt          ← Clean transcripts
    ├── 📄 02 - Overview.txt
    ├── 📄 01 - Setup.txt
    ├── 📄 02 - Configuration.txt
    └── 📄 00-COMBINED-ALL.txt       ← Master searchable file
Sample Combined Output
COMBINED COURSE SUBTITLES
Generated on: 2025-07-27 16:04:03
Total files processed: 45
================================================================================

================================================================================
SECTION: 01 - Introduction
================================================================================

=== 01 - Welcome ===
Hello everyone and welcome to this comprehensive course.
In this section, we'll cover the fundamentals...
--------------------------------------------------

=== 02 - Overview ===
Let's start by understanding the key concepts...
--------------------------------------------------

================================================================================
SECTION: 02 - Getting Started
================================================================================

=== 01 - Setup ===
First, we need to install the required software...
--------------------------------------------------
🔍 How to Use the Results
1. Search Entire Course

Open 00-COMBINED-ALL.txt
Use Ctrl + F to search for any topic
Find specific concepts across all lectures instantly

2. Individual Lecture Study

Browse individual .txt files in the Subtitles folder
Clean, readable format perfect for note-taking
Copy content to your preferred study app

3. Import to Note-Taking Apps

Obsidian: Import as markdown files
Notion: Copy content into database
OneNote: Paste organized sections
Anki: Create flashcards from content

🔧 Troubleshooting
Common Issues
IssueSolution"Execution Policy" errorRun: Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser RemoteSignedNo files foundEnsure .vtt or .srt files exist in course folderSpecial characters errorSave script file as UTF-8 encodingPermission deniedRun PowerShell as Administrator
Script Output Meanings
MessageMeaning✅ SUCCESSFile processed and cleaned successfully⚠️ WARNINGFile found but no content after cleaning❌ ERRORFile couldn't be processed (check file corruption)
Performance Tips

Large courses (500+ files): Script may take 2-5 minutes
Network drives: Copy to local drive first for faster processing
Antivirus: Exclude the script folder if scanning slows down processing

🤝 Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Here's how you can help:

Fork the repository
Create a feature branch (git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature)
Commit your changes (git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature')
Push to the branch (git push origin feature/AmazingFeature)
Open a Pull Request

Ideas for Contributions

🌐 Support for additional subtitle formats
🎨 GUI version using Windows Forms
🔄 Batch processing multiple course folders
📱 Cross-platform support (Linux/macOS)
🎯 Integration with popular note-taking apps

📄 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
🙏 Acknowledgments

Thanks to all video course creators who provide subtitle files
Inspired by the need for better course content organization
Built for students and professionals who love learning efficiently

📞 Support
If you find this tool helpful, please:

⭐ Star this repository
🍴 Fork it for your own modifications
🐛 Report issues you encounter
💡 Suggest new features


Made with ❤️ for lifelong learners

"The beautiful thing about learning is that no one can take it away from you." - B.B. King

Commit message:

🔧 Fix README formatting and add direct PowerShell script download
✨ Improvements:
- Fixed broken markdown formatting in Installation section
- Added direct download link for Process-Subtitles.ps1 script
- Improved spacing and structure throughout document
- Enhanced readability with proper code blocks and sections
- Users can now easily download the script without cloning repo

🎯 README now displays properly with professional formatting

README.md, after:

# Video Course Transcript Organizer

> **Automatically extract, clean, and organize subtitles from video courses into searchable text files**

[![PowerShell](https://img.shields.io/badge/PowerShell-5391FE?style=for-the-badge&logo=powershell&logoColor=white)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/)
[![Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows-0078D6?style=for-the-badge&logo=windows&logoColor=white)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Features](#features)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Output Structure](#output-structure)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## 🎯 Overview

Ever downloaded a video course (Udemy, Coursera, etc.) and wanted to quickly search through all the transcripts? This PowerShell script automatically processes hundreds of subtitle files (`.vtt` and `.srt`) and converts them into clean, organized, and searchable text files.

**Perfect for:**
- 📚 Course study notes and reference
- 🔍 Quick topic searching across entire courses
- 📝 Creating study guides from video content
- 🎓 Academic research and note-taking
- 💼 Professional development tracking

## ✨ Features

### 🧹 **Smart Cleaning**
- Removes timestamps (`00:01:23.456 --> 00:01:26.789`)
- Strips metadata (`WEBVTT`, `NOTE`, `STYLE`)
- Eliminates sequence numbers and empty lines
- Filters out sound effects (`[music]`, `[applause]`)

### 📁 **Organized Output**
- Maintains course folder structure
- Creates individual clean transcript files
- Generates combined master file for searching
- Handles special characters and emojis in filenames

### 🎯 **User-Friendly**
- Progress tracking with colored output
- Comprehensive error handling
- Automatic results folder opening
- Detailed processing statistics

## 🔧 Requirements

- **Windows 10/11** or Windows Server
- **PowerShell 5.1** or higher
- **Course folder** with `.vtt` or `.srt` subtitle files

## 📦 Installation

### Method 1: Download Script

1. **Download the PowerShell script directly:**
   - Right-click this link: [Process-Subtitles.ps1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devsgh-cloudsec/video-course-transcript-organizer/main/Process-Subtitles.ps1)
   - Select "Save link as..." or "Save target as..."
   - Save as `Process-Subtitles.ps1` in your course folder

2. **Enable script execution** (if needed):
   ```powershell
   Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
Method 2: Clone Repository
bashgit clone https://github.com/devsgh-cloudsec/video-course-transcript-organizer.git
cd video-course-transcript-organizer
🚀 Usage
Step 1: Prepare Your Course Folder
Organize your course like this:
📂 Your-Course-Folder/
├── 📂 01 - Introduction/
│   ├── 📄 01 - Welcome.vtt
│   └── 📄 02 - Overview.vtt
├── 📂 02 - Getting Started/
│   ├── 📄 01 - Setup.srt
│   └── 📄 02 - Configuration.srt
└── 📄 Process-Subtitles.ps1  ← Place script here
Step 2: Run the Script
Option A: Right-click Method

Right-click Process-Subtitles.ps1
Select "Run with PowerShell"

Option B: PowerShell Command
powershell# Navigate to your course folder
cd "E:\Courses\Your-Course-Folder"

# Run the script
.\Process-Subtitles.ps1
Step 3: View Results
The script will automatically open the Subtitles folder containing your processed files.
📊 Output Structure
After processing, you'll get:
📂 Your-Course-Folder/
├── 📂 01 - Introduction/
│   ├── 📄 01 - Welcome.vtt
│   └── 📄 02 - Overview.vtt
├── 📂 02 - Getting Started/
│   ├── 📄 01 - Setup.srt
│   └── 📄 02 - Configuration.srt
└── 📂 Subtitles/                    ← Generated by script
    ├── 📄 01 - Welcome.txt          ← Clean transcripts
    ├── 📄 02 - Overview.txt
    ├── 📄 01 - Setup.txt
    ├── 📄 02 - Configuration.txt
    └── 📄 00-COMBINED-ALL.txt       ← Master searchable file
Sample Combined Output
COMBINED COURSE SUBTITLES
Generated on: 2025-07-27 16:04:03
Total files processed: 45
================================================================================

================================================================================
SECTION: 01 - Introduction
================================================================================

=== 01 - Welcome ===
Hello everyone and welcome to this comprehensive course.
In this section, we'll cover the fundamentals...
--------------------------------------------------

=== 02 - Overview ===
Let's start by understanding the key concepts...
--------------------------------------------------

================================================================================
SECTION: 02 - Getting Started
================================================================================

=== 01 - Setup ===
First, we need to install the required software...
--------------------------------------------------
🔍 How to Use the Results
1. Search Entire Course

Open 00-COMBINED-ALL.txt
Use Ctrl + F to search for any topic
Find specific concepts across all lectures instantly

2. Individual Lecture Study

Browse individual .txt files in the Subtitles folder
Clean, readable format perfect for note-taking
Copy content to your preferred study app

3. Import to Note-Taking Apps

Obsidian: Import as markdown files
Notion: Copy content into database
OneNote: Paste organized sections
Anki: Create flashcards from content

🔧 Troubleshooting
Common Issues
IssueSolution"Execution Policy" errorRun: Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser RemoteSignedNo files foundEnsure .vtt or .srt files exist in course folderSpecial characters errorSave script file as UTF-8 encodingPermission deniedRun PowerShell as Administrator
Script Output Meanings
MessageMeaning✅ SUCCESSFile processed and cleaned successfully⚠️ WARNINGFile found but no content after cleaning❌ ERRORFile couldn't be processed (check file corruption)
Performance Tips

Large courses (500+ files): Script may take 2-5 minutes
Network drives: Copy to local drive first for faster processing
Antivirus: Exclude the script folder if scanning slows down processing

🤝 Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Here's how you can help:

Fork the repository
Create a feature branch (git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature)
Commit your changes (git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature')
Push to the branch (git push origin feature/AmazingFeature)
Open a Pull Request

Ideas for Contributions

🌐 Support for additional subtitle formats
🎨 GUI version using Windows Forms
🔄 Batch processing multiple course folders
📱 Cross-platform support (Linux/macOS)
🎯 Integration with popular note-taking apps

📄 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
🙏 Acknowledgments

Thanks to all video course creators who provide subtitle files
Inspired by the need for better course content organization
Built for students and professionals who love learning efficiently

📞 Support
If you find this tool helpful, please:

⭐ Star this repository
🍴 Fork it for your own modifications
🐛 Report issues you encounter
💡 Suggest new features


Made with ❤️ for lifelong learners

"The beautiful thing about learning is that no one can take it away from you." - B.B. King
